Added the Tutorials for Approvals (#2416)
harness/developer-hub: tutorials/cd-pipelines/approvals.md

1. Before starting with the following tutorial you need to have a **Harness CD pipeline** with active delegates and connectors. Please follow this [tutorial](tutorials/cd-pipelines/kubernetes/manifest.md) that gets you started with Harness Continuous Delivery (CD). The tutorial below uses the Harness resources created as part of the get-started tutorial. 

2. **Harness User Group** the tutorials will use [Harness User Groups](/docs/platform/user-management/add-user-groups/), to manage user access. Create the user group of name `approval-demo` at the account level and add yourself as an user. 

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Manual Approval">
```

You can specify Harness User Group(s) to approve or reject a Pipeline at any point in its execution. During deployment, the User Group members use the Harness Manager to approve or reject the Pipeline deployment manually.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Approval Stage">
```
Approvals can be added in between Stages to prevent the Pipeline execution from proceeding without an approval.

## Add Approval stage

1. In the visual view of the pipeline, click on **Add Stage** and select **Approval** as the stage type.

> 2. Name the stage `manual-approval-stage` and select **Harness** as the approval type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Name the stage `manual-approval-stage`, and select **Harness Approval** as the approval type.
```

4. Click on **apply changes** at the top right and your approval step is created. 
5. **Save** the changes to the pipeline. 
6. Since you already have a deploy stage present before the approval stage, drag the deploy stage to the right of the approval stage. 
7. Verify and confirm the approval stage and deploy stage as shown below.
 
   <docimage path={require('./static/harness-cicd-tutorial/manualapprovalstage.png')} />

3. Click on **Save** and then **Run** the pipeline. 
4. As an approver, you'll receive notification on the **console log** window under the **Logs** once the pipeline is running to approve or reject the pipeline. Click on **Approve** to run the pipeline. 

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Approval Steps">
```
An Approval stage enables an approver to approve or reject the step, stopping the pipeline. The approver can also add comments and define variables for use by subsequent approvers and steps.

For this tutorial, we will use the visual view of the pipeline. 

> ## Add Approval Step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add an Approval step
```

:::

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="JIRA Approval">
```
:::note
This feature is behind a Feature Flag and is available only to paid customers. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

Jira issues can be used to approve or reject a pipeline or stage at any point in its execution. During deployment, the pipeline evaluates the fields in the Jira ticket based on criteria you define. Its approval or rejection determines if the Pipeline or stage may proceed.

You can add the Jira Approval step in Approval stages or in CD stages. The Jira Approval step prevents the stage execution from proceeding without an approval.

## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

> 1. **Personal Access Token**: Add the [JIRA API token](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/) as a Harness [Text Secret](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/add-use-text-secrets#add-a-text-secret), with the name `jirapat`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Personal Access Token:** Add the [JIRA API token](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/) as a Harness [Text Secret](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/add-use-text-secrets#add-a-text-secret), with the name `jirapat`
```

> 2. **JIRA Connector**: For this tutorial you need to create a [JIRA Connector](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/ticketing-systems/connect-to-jira/#add-a-jira-connector) of the name `jira-approval`. If you've done the [Deploy using Kubernetes Manifest](tutorials/cd-pipelines/kubernetes/manifest.md) tutorial, use this [jira-connector.yml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/approval/jira-connector.yml) to create connector under the project setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **JIRA Connector:** For this tutorial you need to create a [JIRA Connector](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/ticketing-systems/connect-to-jira/#add-a-jira-connector) of the name `jira-approval`. If you've done the [Deploy using Kubernetes Manifest](tutorials/cd-pipelines/kubernetes/manifest.md) tutorial, use this [jira-connector.yml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/approval/jira-connector.yml) to create connector under the project setup. 
```

    
    - In the YAML, replace the `JIRA_URL` with your company base URL for JIRA applications, for example: `https://mycompany.atlassian.net`
    - Replcae the `Username` with the email ID you use to log in to Jira.
3. **Jira Task**: Create a dummy [Jira issue](https://support.atlassian.com/jira-software-cloud/docs/create-an-issue-and-a-sub-task/) with type Task on the project for which your API has read access. Then set the status to `Done`. 

## Limitations

Harness supports only Jira fields of type `Option`, `Array`, `Any`, `Number`, `Date`, and `String`. Harness does not integrate with Jira fields that manage users, issue links, or attachments. This means that Jira fields like Assignee and Sprint are not accessible in Harness' Jira integration.

> ## Add the JIRA Approval step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add the Jira Approval step
```

> 1. In the CD stage **(deploy-guestbook)**, go to the **Execution** tab select **Add Step**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the CD stage **(deploy-guestbook)**, go to the **Execution** tab, and then select **Add Step**.
```

2. In the **Step Library**, search for **approval** and select **JIRA Approval**.

> 3. Add a **Name** to the step, and set the **tTimeout** to **20s**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a **Name** to the step, and set the **Timeout** to **20s**.
```

> 4. Add the **JIRA connector** and then add the **Issue Key** of the Jira issue you created above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the **Jira Connector**, and then add the **Issue Key** of the Jira issue you created above. 
```

5. Now set the **Approval Criteria**. There are two ways to do this. You can also specify a combination of the two:  
    
    - **Conditions**: Use the `Jira Field`, operator`, and `Value` to define approval criteria.

>     - **JEXL Expression**: Use the [JEXL Expression](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-jexl/reference/syntax.html) to define the same values as under condtions, for example: `<+issue.Status> == "Done"`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **JEXL Expression:** Use the [JEXL Expression](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-jexl/reference/syntax.html) to define the same values as under conditions, for example: `<+issue.Status> == "Done"`  
```

6. For this tutorial, select **Conditions** and specify the condition **Status = Done**.

> 7. Click on **Apply Changes** at the top right and your Jira Approval step is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select **Apply Changes**. Your Jira Approval step is created.
```

8. Since you already have a deploy step present before the approval step, drag the deploy step to the right of Jira approval step. 
7. Verify and confirm the pipeline stage and execution steps.
8. **Save** and **Run** the pipeline. 

## Add JIRA Approval Stage

1. In the visual view of the pipeline, click on **Add Stage** and select the **Stage Type** as **approval**.
2. Name the stage as `jira-approval-stage` and select the type as **Jira**. 

    :::info

>     You do not need to use the  Jira Create  and Jira Update steps with the Jira Approval step, but they are included in the `Jira Approval stage` because many users want to create a Jira issue, approve/reject based on its settings, and then update the Jira issue all in one stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You do not need to use the Jira Create and Jira Update steps with the Jira Approval step. They are included in the `Jira Approval stage` because many users want to create a Jira issue, approve/reject based on its settings, and then update the issue all in one stage.
```

    ::: 
3. Follow the steps [here](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/ticketing-systems/create-jira-issues-in-cd-stages/#add-a-jira-create-step) and update the **Jira Create** step.

> 4. Similarly, follow the steps mentioned [here](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/ticketing-systems/update-jira-issues-in-cd-stages#add-a-jira-update-step) and update the **Jira Update** step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Similarly, follow the steps [here](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/ticketing-systems/update-jira-issues-in-cd-stages#add-a-jira-update-step), and update the **Jira Update** step. 
```

> 5. For the **Jira Approval** step, follow the instructions mentioned above in [Add the JIRA Approval step](#add-the-jira-approval-step). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. For the **Jira Approval** step, follow the instructions above in [Add the JIRA Approval step](#add-the-jira-approval-step). 
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ServiceNow Approval">
```
:::info

This feature is behind a Feature Flag and is available only to our paid customers. 

:::

ServiceNow tickets can be used to approve or reject a pipeline or stage at any point in its execution. During deployment, a ServiceNow ticket's fields are evaluated according to the criteria you define, and its approval or rejection determines if the pipeline or stage may proceed.

Approvals can be added as stages or in-between stage steps to prevent stage execution from proceeding without approval.

## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

1. **ServiceNow Connector**: You need to connect to ServiceNow using the [connector](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/ticketing-systems/connect-to-service-now/#add-a-servicenow-connector). 

2. **ServiceNow Ticket**: Create a dummy ServiceNow ticket with the `state` of the ticket set to `new`.  

## Limitations

The ServiceNOw API only allows datetime and time values in the **UTC timezone**. Hence, for any **datetime/time fields** in **Harness ServiceNow steps** must be provided in **UTC format**.

## Add ServiceNow Approval Step

> 1. In the  CD stage deploy-guestbook, go to the **Execution** tab and select **add step**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the CD stage **deploy-guestbook**, go to the **Execution** tab, and then select **Add Step**.
```

> 2. In the **Step Library**, search for **approval** and select **ServiceNow Approval**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Step Library**, under **Approval**, select **ServiceNow Approval**.
```

3. Add a **Name** to the step, and set the **Timeout** to **20s**.

> 4. Add the **ServiceNow Connector** and the **Ticket Number** of the Issue you created above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the **ServiceNow Connector** and the **Ticket Number** of the issue you created above. 
```

5. Now set the **Approval Criteria**. There are two ways to do this. You can also specify a combination of the two:  
    

>     - **Conditions**: Use the `Field`, `Operator`, and `Value` to define approval criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Conditions:** Use the **Field**, **Operator**, and **Value** to define approval criteria.
```

    - **JEXL Expression**: Use the [JEXL Expression](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-jexl/reference/syntax.html) to define the same values as under condtions, for eg: `<+ticket.state.displayValue> == "New"`  

    For this tutorial, use the JEXL Expression `<+ticket.state.displayValue> == "New"`.
7. Click on **Apply Changes** at the top right and your ServiceNow approval step is created.
8. Since you already have a deploy step present before the approval step, drag the deploy step to the right of ServiceNow approval step. 
9. Verify and confirm the pipeline stage and execution steps.
10. **Save** and **Run** the pipeline. 

## Add ServiceNow Approval Stage

> 1. In the visual view of the pipeline, click **Add Stage** and select the **Stage Type** as **Approval**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the visual view of the pipeline, select **Add Stage**, and select **Approval** for the **Stage Type**.
```

> 2. Name the stage as `snow-approval-stage` and select the type as **ServiceNow**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Name the stage `snow-approval-stage`, and then select **ServiceNow** for the approval type.

3. Select **Set Up Stage**.
```

> 3. Click the **ServiceNow step** and follow the instructions in [Add ServiceNow Approval Step](#add-servicenow-approval-step). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Under **Execution**, select the **ServiceNow Approval** step, and follow the instructions in [Add ServiceNow Approval Step](#add-servicenow-approval-step). 
```

4. Drag the **deploy-guestbook** stage to the right of the **jira-approval** stage. 

> 5. **Save** and **Run** the pipeline. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Save**, and then select **Run** to run the pipeline. 
```
